Choosing A Machine Learning Model

Supervised Machine Learning


For our project, we want to be able to predict unit selling price for residential properties in New York City.  We have 15 years of sales data for the five boroughs in NYC.  
We will be using the first 10 years of sales data to train our model and the subsequent five years to test our machine learning model.  As supervised learning deals with 
labeled data this will be the primary model we will use.  

We will be using a regression model as the target output are continuous variables (sale price).  The classification model would not be an appropriate choice as it can only be used
to predict discrete outcomes.  Logistic regression would also not be appropriate as its outcomes are binary.  Support Vector Machine (SVM) would also not be able to generate the 
desired output for our project as it too produces a binary output.  

In order to confirm that the linear regression model is most accurate in predicting the target outcome, we will build a linear regression model, multiple 
linear regression model and a neural network to compare results.

Most data preprocessing was completed in SQL using PgAdmin including droping NaN values, removing commercial properties and outliers.  Property sales with a price of under $1,000 
also removed as these are typically transfer of property between related parties and do not represent a true property sale.

Label Encoder was used to encode "Address", "Building Class Catagory" and "Neighborhood" in order to use in the machine learning model.

To confirm which machine learning model provides the greatest degree of predictive accuracy we tested the following models:

  1) Linear Regression 
  2) Robust Regression 
  3) Ridge Regression 
  4) Lasso Regression 
  5) Elastic Net Regression 
  6) Polynomail Regression 
  7) Stochastic Gradient Descent 
  8) Artficial Neural Network 
  9) Random Forest Regressor 
  10) SVM Regressor

In order to proceed with building our machine learning model we will complete the following steps:
  1. Creating the model:
      To create the model we will be using Scikit-learn linear regression module in Pandas: from sklearn.linear_model import LinearRegression
  2. Train the model:
      We will define the target variable (Sale_Price) and independent variable(s).  We will split the dataset into X and y components, with X being the input data and y the output.
  3. Create the predictions:
      Using y_pred = model.predict(X) we will generate predictions for the y data and plot the best fit line



